All right,
let's talk a little bit about Nuxt.
I typically use Nuxt for
everything these days,
I don't really use Vue CLI that often.
It's not because I hate Vue CLI,
Vue CLI is awesome, but
Nuxt is super, super, [LAUGH] awesome.
The next team is really wonderful at
keeping up to date with everything that's
in view, in fact, we share the view core
team shares a discord with the next team.
So we talk all the time, we also do things
like karaoke, [LAUGH] and stuff like that.
So, here we've got Nuxt and some routing.
Again nExt is to rEact as nUxt is to vUe,
I actually had an applicant for
a job who did this and
I'm borrowing this from him because
I thought it was such a good
example of what, [LAUGH] that was.
So nExt.js is kind of similar,
it's a meta framework of rEact.
So nExt uses rEact and
builds off of it, nUxt uses vUe.
And when it was first born,
this project was really conceived of
as like a comparable thing to Nuxt.
At this point though,
just like vUe has borrowed from things and
then deviated course from there.
nExt has kind of deviated,
has its own community now,
it has its own opinions about things,
it has its own features.
So let's talk about some of those things.
Why would we use Nuxt?
You get Automatic Code Splitting,
you get Server-Side and
I will describe what Code Splitting
is in just a second.
You get Server-Side Rendering so
you can render something
a bunch of different ways.
You can render it as an SPA,
you can render it in a Jamstack way,
you can render it for a node server.
And it allows you to change all of those
things with just one line of code,
which is super awesome.
It has a really powerful Routing System
and it allows for Asynchronous Routing,
but you don't have to set any of that up.
So in other words when you're working with
Vue CLI, you would create a project with
Vue CLI add and view router and
then you would declare all of your routes.
With Nuxt it sets all of that stuff up for
you so
you don't have to do any of that
which is really, really awesome.
If you need to get dive behind
the abstraction, it offers a thing
called middleware so that you can
access these pieces of routing and
just, okay, when this happens and
this route changes do this.
[LAUGH] It offers lighthouse
scores out of the gate.
If you use Vue CLI and
even like the PWA of Vue CLI right out of
the box it doesn't even
score as high as Nuxt does.
Because Nuxt does all of
this stuff to kind of make
sure that it has
the smallest build possible.
It has Automatic dynamic routes this
is actually new you could create
dynamic routes, but
they weren't automatic,
you have to declare in a function what
you want the shape of what you'd want.
Now, in this next version of Nuxt,
[LAUGH] newer version of Nuxt,
what we have is the ability to
dynamically create all of these routes.
And again, in the next course,
I will go through how those are made.
So let's say you had a manifest file and
for
every page you wanted to make a product
page out of all of that data.
If you are creating an underscored page,
it will automatically create all
of those pages for you, so cool.
It offers Transpilation,
Hot reloading in Development,
pre-processing like SASS,
LESS, and Stylus.
You can write Vue Files, just as I said,
but you can write Vue Files as your
pages and they will create pages and
I'll show you that.
I mentioned code splitting,
what is code splitting actually?
[LAUGH] Code splitting, tree shaking, so
when we're talking about tree shaking,
let's say we're loading lodash, and
lodash has all of these different methods.
It's just like got so
much stuff for us to play with.
So we're loading lodash and we're
only really using _.tail and _.union,
we can tree shake.
[LAUGH] And what we're left with is
just the things that we are using,
just the things that we're accessing.
Which makes, it means that as we use
Nuxt for bigger and bigger projects,
we're loading more and more libraries.
That's when the performance really
pays off because it's saying,
I'll just use the smallest thing possible
and I'll get rid of anything else.